REBINDING KEYS
       Key bindings can be changed via the following three commands:

          bind key function menu
                 Rebinds the given key to the given function in the given menu
                 (or in all menus where the function exists when all is used).

          bind key "string" menu
                 Makes the given key produce the given  string  in  the  given
                 menu (or in all menus where the key exists when all is used).
                 The string can consist of text or commands or a mix of  them.
                 (To  enter  a  command into the string, precede its keystroke
                 with M-V.)

          unbind key menu
                 Unbinds the given key from the given menu (or from all  menus
                 where the key exists when all is used).


       The format of key should be one of:

          ^X     where X is a Latin letter, or one of several ASCII characters
                 (@, ], \, ^, _), or the word "Space".  Example: ^C.

          M-X    where X is any ASCII character except [, or the word "Space".
                 Example: M-8.

          Sh-M-X where  X  is  a  Latin letter.  Example: Sh-M-U.  By default,
                 each Meta+letter keystroke does the same as the corresponding
                 Shift+Meta+letter.   But  when  any  Shift+Meta bind is made,
                 that will no longer be the case, for all letters.

          FN     where N is a numeric value  from  1  to  24.   Example:  F10.
                 (Often, F13 to F24 can be typed as F1 to F12 with Shift.)

          Ins or Del.

       Rebinding  ^M (Enter) or ^I (Tab) is probably not a good idea.  Rebind-
       ing ^[ (Esc) is not possible, because its keycode is the  starter  byte
       of  Meta  keystrokes  and escape sequences.  Rebinding any of the dedi-
       cated cursor-moving keys (the arrows, Home, End, PageUp  and  PageDown)
       is  not  possible.   On  some  terminals it's not possible to rebind ^H
       (unless --raw is used) because its keycode is identical to that of  the
       Backspace key.


       Valid function names to be bound are:

          help
            Invokes the help viewer.

          cancel
            Cancels the current command.

          exit
            Exits from the program (or from the help viewer or file browser).

          writeout
            Writes the current buffer to disk, asking for a name.

          savefile
            Writes the current file to disk without prompting.

          insert
            Inserts  a  file  into  the  current buffer (at the current cursor
            position), or into a new buffer when option multibuffer is set.

          whereis
            Starts a forward search for text in the current buffer --  or  for
            filenames  matching  a  string  in  the  current  list in the file
            browser.

          wherewas
            Starts a backward search for text in the current buffer -- or  for
            filenames  matching  a  string  in  the  current  list in the file
            browser.

          findprevious
            Searches the next occurrence in the backward direction.

          findnext
            Searches the next occurrence in the forward direction.

          replace
            Interactively replaces text within the current buffer.

          cut
            Cuts and stores the current line (or the marked region).

          copy
            Copies the current line (or the marked  region)  without  deleting
            it.

          paste
            Pastes  the  currently  stored text into the current buffer at the
            current cursor position.

          zap
            Throws away the current line (or the marked region).  (This  func-
            tion is bound by default to &lt;Meta+Delete&gt;.)

          chopwordleft
            Deletes from the cursor position to the beginning of the preceding
            word.  (This function is bound by default to  &lt;Shift+Ctrl+Delete&gt;.
            If  your  terminal  produces ^H for &lt;Ctrl+Backspace&gt;, you can make
            &lt;Ctrl+Backspace&gt; delete the word to the  left  of  the  cursor  by
            rebinding ^H to this function.)

          chopwordright
            Deletes  from  the  cursor  position  to the beginning of the next
            word.  (This function is bound by default to &lt;Ctrl+Delete&gt;.)

          cutrestoffile
            Cuts all text from the cursor position till the end of the buffer.

          mark
            Sets the mark at the current position, to  start  selecting  text.
            Or, when it is set, unsets the mark.

          location
            Reports  the  current  position  of  the cursor in the buffer: the
            line, column, and character positions.   (The  old  name  of  this
            function, 'curpos', is deprecated.)

          wordcount
            Counts  and  reports on the status bar the number of lines, words,
            and characters in the current buffer (or in the marked region).

          execute
            Prompts for a program to execute.  The program's  output  will  be
            inserted into the current buffer (or into a new buffer when M-F is
            toggled).

          speller
            Invokes a spell-checking program, either the  default  hunspell(1)
            or GNU spell(1), or the one defined by --speller or set speller.

          formatter
            Invokes  a  full-buffer-processing  program  (if the active syntax
            defines one).

          linter
            Invokes a syntax-checking program (if the  active  syntax  defines
            one).

          justify
            Justifies  the  current paragraph (or the marked region).  A para-
            graph is a group of contiguous lines that, apart from possibly the
            first  line,  all  have  the same indentation.  The beginning of a
            paragraph is detected by either this lone line  with  a  differing
            indentation or by a preceding blank line.

          fulljustify
            Justifies the entire current buffer (or the marked region).

          indent
            Indents  (shifts  to  the  right)  the  current line or the marked
            lines.

          unindent
            Unindents (shifts to the left) the  current  line  or  the  marked
            lines.

          comment
            Comments or uncomments the current line or the marked lines, using
            the comment style specified in the active syntax.

          complete
            Completes (when possible) the fragment before the cursor to a full
            word found elsewhere in the current buffer.

          left
            Goes left one position (in the editor or browser).

          right
            Goes right one position (in the editor or browser).

          up
            Goes one line up (in the editor or browser).

          down
            Goes one line down (in the editor or browser).

          scrollup
            Scrolls  the  viewport  up  one  row (meaning that the text slides
            down) while keeping the cursor in the same text position, if  pos-
            sible.   (This  function  is  bound  by  default  to &lt;Alt+Up&gt;.  If
            &lt;Alt+Up&gt;  does  nothing  on  your  Linux  console,  see  the  FAQ:
            &lt;https://nano-editor.org/dist/latest/faq.html#4.1&gt;.)

          scrolldown
            Scrolls  the  viewport  down one row (meaning that the text slides
            up) while keeping the cursor in the same text position, if  possi-
            ble.  (This function is bound by default to &lt;Alt+Down&gt;.)

          center
            Scrolls the line with the cursor to the middle of the screen.

          prevword
            Moves the cursor to the beginning of the previous word.

          nextword
            Moves the cursor to the beginning of the next word.

          home
            Moves the cursor to the beginning of the current line.

          end
            Moves the cursor to the end of the current line.

          beginpara
            Moves the cursor to the beginning of the current paragraph.

          endpara
            Moves the cursor to the end of the current paragraph.

          prevblock
            Moves  the  cursor  to  the  beginning of the current or preceding
            block of text.  (Blocks are separated by one or more blank lines.)

          nextblock
            Moves the cursor to the beginning of the next block of text.

          pageup
            Goes up one screenful.

          pagedown
            Goes down one screenful.

          firstline
            Goes to the first line of the file.

          lastline
            Goes to the last line of the file.

          gotoline
            Goes to a specific line (and column if specified).  Negative  num-
            bers count from the end of the file (and end of the line).

          findbracket
            Moves  the  cursor  to the bracket (or brace or parenthesis, etc.)
            that matches (pairs) with the  one  under  the  cursor.   See  set
            matchbrackets.

          anchor
            Places  an  anchor at the current line, or removes it when already
            present.  (An anchor is visible when line numbers are activated.)

          prevanchor
            Goes to the first anchor before the current line.

          nextanchor
            Goes to the first anchor after the current line.

          prevbuf
            Switches to editing/viewing the previous buffer when multiple buf-
            fers are open.

          nextbuf
            Switches  to editing/viewing the next buffer when multiple buffers
            are open.

          verbatim
            Inserts the next keystroke verbatim into the file.

          tab
            Inserts a tab at the current cursor location.

          enter
            Inserts a new line below the current one.

          delete
            Deletes the character under the cursor.

          backspace
            Deletes the character before the cursor.

          recordmacro
            Starts the recording of keystrokes -- the keystrokes are stored as
            a macro.  When already recording, the recording is stopped.

          runmacro
            Replays the keystrokes of the last recorded macro.

          undo
            Undoes  the  last  performed  text  action (add text, delete text,
            etc).

          redo
            Redoes the last undone action (i.e., it undoes an undo).

          refresh
            Refreshes the screen.

          suspend
            Suspends the editor (if the suspending function  is  enabled,  see
            the suspendable toggle item below).

          casesens
            Toggles  whether  searching/replacing ignores or respects the case
            of the given characters.

          regexp
            Toggles whether searching/replacing uses literal strings or  regu-
            lar expressions.

          backwards
            Toggles whether searching/replacing goes forward or backward.

          older
            Retrieves the previous (earlier) entry at a prompt.

          newer
            Retrieves the next (later) entry at a prompt.

          flipreplace
            Toggles between searching for something and replacing something.

          flipgoto
            Toggles between searching for text and targeting a line number.

          flipexecute
            Toggles between inserting a file and executing a command.

          flippipe
            When  executing  a command, toggles whether the current buffer (or
            marked region) is piped to the command.

          flipnewbuffer
            Toggles between inserting into the current buffer and into  a  new
            empty buffer.

          flipconvert
            When  reading  in  a file, toggles between converting and not con-
            verting it from DOS/Mac format.  Converting is the default.

          dosformat
            When writing a file, switches to writing a DOS format (CR/LF).

          macformat
            When writing a file, switches to writing a Mac format.

          append
            When writing a file, appends to the end instead of overwriting.

          prepend
            When writing a file, 'prepends' (writes at the beginning)  instead
            of overwriting.

          backup
            When writing a file, creates a backup of the current file.

          discardbuffer
            When  about  to  write  a file, discard the current buffer without
            saving.  (This function is  bound  by  default  only  when  option
            --saveonexit is in effect.)

          browser
            Starts  the  file  browser (in the Read File and Write Out menus),
            allowing to select a file from a list.

          gotodir
            Goes to a directory to be specified, allowing to  browse  anywhere
            in the filesystem.

          firstfile
            Goes to the first file in the list when using the file browser.

          lastfile
            Goes to the last file in the list when using the file browser.

          nohelp
            Toggles  the  presence of the two-line list of key bindings at the
            bottom of the screen.  (This toggle is special: it is available in
            all menus except the help viewer and the linter.  All further tog-
            gles are available in the main menu only.)

          constantshow
            Toggles the constant display of  the  current  line,  column,  and
            character positions.

          softwrap
            Toggles the displaying of overlong lines on multiple screen lines.

          linenumbers
            Toggles the display of line numbers in front of the text.

          whitespacedisplay
            Toggles the showing of whitespace.

          nosyntax
            Toggles syntax highlighting.

          smarthome
            Toggles the smartness of the Home key.

          autoindent
            Toggles  whether a newly created line will contain the same amount
            of leading whitespace as the preceding line -- or as the next line
            if the preceding line is the beginning of a paragraph.

          cutfromcursor
            Toggles  whether cutting text will cut the whole line or just from
            the current cursor position to the end of the line.

          breaklonglines
            Toggles whether long lines will be hard-wrapped to the next  line.
            (The old name of this function, 'nowrap', is deprecated.)

          tabstospaces
            Toggles whether typed tabs will be converted to spaces.

          mouse
            Toggles mouse support.

          suspendable
            Toggles  whether  the suspend keystroke (^Z by default) will actu-
            ally suspend the editor.  (The old name of  this  function,  'sus-
            pendenable', is deprecated.)


       Valid menu sections are:

          main
            The main editor window where text is entered and edited.

          help
            The help-viewer menu.

          search
            The search menu (AKA whereis).

          replace
            The 'search to replace' menu.

          replacewith
            The 'replace with' menu, which comes up after 'search to replace'.

          yesno
            The 'yesno' menu, where the Yes/No/All/Cancel question is asked.

          gotoline
            The 'goto line (and column)' menu.

          writeout
            The 'write file' menu.

          insert
            The 'insert file' menu.

          browser
            The  'file  browser'  menu,  for  selecting a file to be opened or
            inserted or written to.

          whereisfile
            The 'search for a file' menu in the file browser.

          gotodir
            The 'go to directory' menu in the file browser.

          execute
            The menu for inserting the output from an external command, or for
            filtering  the  buffer  (or the marked region) through an external
            command, or for executing one of several tools.  (The old form  of
            this menu name, 'extcmd', is deprecated.)

          spell
            The menu of the integrated spell checker where the user can edit a
            misspelled word.

          linter
            The linter menu, which allows jumping  through  the  linting  mes-
            sages.

          all
            A  special name that encompasses all menus.  For bind it means all
            menus where the specified function exists; for unbind it means all
            menus where the specified key exists.

