       ing commands:

       syntax name ["fileregex" ...]
              Start the definition of a syntax with this name.  All subsequent
              color  and  other  such  commands  will be added to this syntax,
              until a new syntax command is encountered.

              When nano is run, this syntax will be automatically activated if
              the  current  filename  matches  the extended regular expression
              fileregex.  Or the syntax can be explicitly activated  by  using
              the -Y or --syntax command-line option followed by the name.

              The  syntax  default  is  special:  it  takes  no fileregex, and
              applies to files that don't match  any  syntax's  regexes.   The
              syntax  none  is  reserved; specifying it on the command line is
              the same as not having a syntax at all.

       header "regex" ...
              If from all defined syntaxes no fileregex matched, then  compare
              this  regex  (or  regexes) against the first line of the current
              file, to determine whether this syntax should be used for it.

       magic "regex" ...
              If no fileregex matched and no header regex matched either, then
              compare  this  regex (or regexes) against the result of querying
              the magic database about the current file, to determine  whether
              this  syntax  should  be  used for it.  (This functionality only
              works when libmagic is installed  on  the  system  and  will  be
              silently ignored otherwise.)

       formatter program [argument ...]
              Run  the  given program on the full contents of the current buf-
              fer.  (The current buffer is written out to  a  temporary  file,
              the  program  is  run on it, and then the temporary file is read
              back in, replacing the contents of the buffer.)

       linter program [argument ...]
              Use the given program to run a syntax check on the current  buf-
              fer.

       comment "string"
              Use  the given string for commenting and uncommenting lines.  If
              the string contains a vertical bar or pipe character  (|),  this
              designates  bracket-style comments; for example, "/*|*/" for CSS
              files.  The characters before the pipe are prepended to the line
              and the characters after the pipe are appended at the end of the
              line.  If no pipe character  is  present,  the  full  string  is
              prepended;  for  example, "#" for Python files.  If empty double
              quotes are specified, the  comment/uncomment  function  is  dis-
              abled; for example, "" for JSON.  The default value is "#".

       tabgives "string"
              Make  the  &lt;Tab&gt;  key produce the given string.  Useful for lan-
              guages like Python that want to see only spaces for indentation.
              This overrides the setting of the tabstospaces option.

       color [bold,][italic,]fgcolor,bgcolor "regex" ...
              Paint all pieces of text that match the extended regular expres-
              sion regex with the given foreground and background  colors,  at
              least  one  of  which must be specified.  Valid color names are:
              red, green, blue, magenta, yellow, cyan, white, and black.  Each
              of  these eight names may be prefixed with the word light to get
              a brighter version of that color.  On  terminal  emulators  that
              can do at least 256 colors, other valid (but unprefixable) color
              names are: pink,  purple,  mauve,  lagoon,  mint,  lime,  peach,
              orange,  latte,  and  normal  --  where normal means the default
              foreground or background color.  The color pair may be  preceded
              by bold and/or italic (separated by commas) to get a bold and/or
              slanting typeface, if your terminal can do those.

              All coloring commands are applied in the order in which they are
              specified,  which  means  that  later commands can recolor stuff
              that was colored earlier.

       icolor [bold,][italic,]fgcolor,bgcolor "regex" ...
              Same as above, except that the matching is case insensitive.

       color [bold,][italic,]fgcolor,bgcolor start="fromrx" end="torx"
              Paint all pieces of text whose start  matches  extended  regular
              expression fromrx and whose end matches extended regular expres-
              sion torx with the given foreground and  background  colors,  at
              least one of which must be specified.  This means that, after an
              initial instance of fromrx, all text until the first instance of
              torx  will  be colored.  This allows syntax highlighting to span
              multiple lines.

       icolor [bold,][italic,]fgcolor,bgcolor start="fromrx" end="torx"
              Same as above, except that the matching is case insensitive.

       include "syntaxfile"
              Read in self-contained color  syntaxes  from  syntaxfile.   Note
              that syntaxfile may contain only the above commands, from syntax
              to icolor.

       extendsyntax name command argument ...
              Extend the syntax previously defined as name with  another  com-
              mand.   This  allows  adding a new color, icolor, header, magic,
              formatter, linter, comment, or tabgives command  to  an  already
              defined  syntax  --  useful  when you want to slightly improve a
              syntax defined in one of the system-installed files (which  nor-
              mally are not writable).
